your heart is the size of your fist your
brain
two clenched fists when you listen to
music
your heartbeat sinks with its rhythm
you can't swallow and breathe at the
same time trust me on that one
there are as many nerve cells in your
brain as there are stars in our galaxy
about 100 billion you're
a half an inch taller in the morning
than in the evening
you can thank gravity for that one
also why astronauts get three percent
taller during their stay
in the weightlessness of space the
average person
breathes over 3 000 gallons of air every
day
enough to inflate one thousand party
balloons
your body contains enough blood vessels
to wrap around the planet two and a half
times
you spend four months of the year asleep
in a lifetime 26 years
and only six of those years will be
spent dreaming
we forget fifty percent of a dream
within five minutes of waking up
ten minutes later it's ninety percent
here's the bad news your nose and ears
are the only parts of your body
that never stop growing
the human brain generates enough
electricity
to power a small light bulb
if your eye was a digital camera it
would have a resolution
of 576 megapixels
[Music]
the human brain could store the
equivalent of 2.5 million gigabytes
that's 3 million hours of your favorite
tv show
each cell in your body contains one and
a half gigabytes of information
do the math for your 100 trillion cells
and see that you're
one powerful walking computer
your brain cools down when you yawn
your ears work even when you're asleep
but your brain
ignores the incoming information
the distance between your outstretched
arms is your height
you renew your skeleton every 10 years
you lose about 100 hairs every day and
that's totally normal
humans are the only creatures who sleep
on their backs for a long time
koalas like humans have their own unique
fingerprints
your tongue prints are also unique to
you
but let's not lick the scanner
scientists at the university of
pittsburgh found that blue and green
eyed people
are less sensitive to pain than brown
but lighter eyes are more light
sensitive than dark ones
the microorganisms in the human body
outnumber
cells ten to one
and together all the bacteria in your
body
weigh about four pounds the fastest
growing fingernail
is the middle one the slowest your thumb
blondes have more hairs than brunettes
and redheads
your ability to distinguish smells uh
let me take another run of that
distinguish smells disappears when you
sleep
and my ability to talk disappears
randomly
there's enough iron in the body to make
a three inch nail
your hand without the pinky would lose
half its strength
never mind how you lost it ouch
people can't digest grass cows can
because they have four stomachs
the mind thinks about seventy thousand
thoughts a day
a man will grow forty feet of beard hair
in a lifetime
the height of a phone pole
it takes just one minute for all five
quarts of blood to get around the body
in a lifetime the average person will
walk
the equivalent of three times around the
world
a person can have from 250 to over
1 000 hairs in each eyebrow
your eyebrows also have a lifespan about
four months for all the hairs to fall
out
and be replaced by new ones thank
goodness
your eyes are the only organ that
doesn't grow with age
your body glows in the dark it's just
too weak for you to see it
99 of all the calcium in the body is in
the teeth and bones
the human eye can distinguish up to 10
million different colors
most people will spend four months of
their life waiting at traffic lights
what a waste of time the muscles in your
iris contract and expand to determine
how big your pupils are
your pupils get bigger when you look at
someone you're attracted to
your skin covers an area of 22 square
feet
the thickest skin is on the soles of
your feet
the thinnest is on your eyelids
your stomach blushes when your cheeks do
the only part of the human body they
can't recover on its own
is the teeth people can show up to 7
000 different facial expressions like
this
or this or even this
the largest organ of the human body is
the skin
and it weighs 20 pounds
you can't sneeze with your eyes open or
breathe while you hum
it's the rules bumps on your tongue
aren't taste buds they're called
papillae
not a papillae contain taste buds but
those that do
can have one to five in each
[Music]
your bones are thirty percent water
the atoms in your body are 99 empty
and yet you feel full after dinner how's
that
the brain grows for the first 18 years
of life
then gets five percent smaller every 10
years after the age of 40.
well that explains a lot don't you think
[Music]
your stomach usually has a volume of one
quart
but can stretch to hold one gallon we
spend
10 percent of our waking hours with our
eyes closed
just from blinking the muscles that work
your fingers
are actually in your forearm
your foot is the same length as your
forearm
same ratio with your thumb and nose
with proper training a single finger
could support your entire body weight
your toenails grow three times slower
than your fingernails
your lungs aren't identical the right
one has three lobes
and the left one has two your hair grows
faster when you're sleeping
the only thing that grows faster than
hair is bone marrow
tooth enamel is the hardest tissue in
your body
your bones are four times stronger than
concrete
the average person drinks enough water
in a lifetime
to fill 150 hot tubs
you have your own unique smell i'm not
touching that one
people lose half their taste buds by the
age of sixty
your body releases enough heat in a half
an hour to boil
two quarts of water your brain uses
twenty percent of that energy your body
generates
your body uses more energy to cool
itself on hot days
than to warm up when it's cold
people can go much longer without food
than without sleep
stomach acid can dissolve metal
it's so strong that the stomach has to
create a new lining every three to four
days
so what's eating you
the loudest snore ever recorded was 93
decibels
louder than a lawnmower i think that was
in my house
a single dna molecule in one cell is
six feet long if you could
unwind all the dna in your body it
reached pluto and back
but pluto's not a planet anymore
the rule of threes states that the human
body can go
three minutes without air three days
without water
and three weeks without food but not
three seconds
without the internet your brain
forgets information to think faster and
protect itself from
emotional overload our
eyes can see a candle flame up to 30
miles away on a clear night
human dna is 96 similar to a chimpanzee
90 percent similar to a cat 70 percent
to a slug
and 50 percent to a banana that has
appeal
you share 99.9 of your dna
with any random person on the planet
a printed version of your entire genetic
code would be over 260
000 pages long that's about 200 large
books
in terms of muscle your tongue is like
an elephant trunk and an
octopus arm oh that's just wrong
[Music]
your nails are made of the same stuff as
a rhino's horn
and a horse's hoof and the rhino wants
it back
we have nails to protect our fingertips
without them
you wouldn't be able to grip things as
well
you use 200 muscles just to take one
step
and 50 muscles just to use chopsticks
you use two fingers to play chopsticks
the word muscle means little mouse in
latin
because that's what ancient romans
thought a flexed bicep looks like
the body's surface area could hold 110
000 mosquitoes at once and feed 15
million
any volunteers most people speak about
125 words a minute
the brain can process 800 at the same
time
me i can go 185 with wind gusts up to
250.
your skin completely renews itself every
27 days
you can't tickle yourself your brain
already knows of your intentions
and prepares your body for it humans are
the only species with an
outline that separates the lips from the
surrounding skin
your lips are red or pink because there
are tons of capillaries right under
their thin
skin your ears produce more earwax when
you're afraid
boy i must be terrified information
travels to
and from the brain going 270 miles per
hour
faster than an arrow the smallest bone
and muscle in your body
are both in your ear your head weighs as
much as a gallon of paint
10 pounds and for me it's almost as
useful
your eyes breathe yup the cornea is the
only part of you that doesn't have a
blood supply
it gets oxygen straight from the air
shark corneas are so similar to humans
they could be used for transplantation
half the bones in your body are in your
feet and hands
come on let's share guys
finally corn flakes have more jeans than
people do
your cereal has 32 000 you have just
20 thousand wow that would take a really
big closet to hold twenty thousand jeans
and now i'm going to stick my head in a
paint bucket
bye for now